# xeno-canto-project-FS2022

In this project I will investigate the migration and breeding patterns of several bird species. The metadata have been taken from https://xeno-canto.org, which allows bird and other wildlife sounds to be uploaded and analysed. The metadata were downloaded using the xeno-canto API-wrapper (https://pypi.org/project/xeno-canto/). The analysis starts with Germany and then proceeds to a specific bird: the Common Blackbird. The species will then itself be analysed for its migration pattern. The xeno-canto project was launched on May 30, 2005. The analysis of the migration pattern of the Common Blackbird is focused on the years 2006 to 2021.

The import and normalisation and the analysis of data will be kept in separate jupyter notebooks to ensure legibility of the code and to prevent files from growing too big. Exploratory data analysis and more detailed analysis will also be kept in separate notebooks as the project progresses. The notebook "import-normalize-data.ipynb" contains the initial import of the relevant files and preliminary data cleaning. The notebook "eda-germany.ipynb" contains exploratory data analysis about common bird species in Germany. "eda-birds.ipynb" contains exploratory data analysis of the Common Blackbird. The final report is contained in the file "Report-TillErmold.pdf". The report was written in R Notebook and has deliberately been kept free of code to ensure legibility. The original report file with the full code is "Report-TillErmold.Rmd".

